now the Palestinian Health Ministry says
that at least 26 people have been killed
in the occupied West Bank since Israel
launched a military operation there a
week ago Israeli forces are targeting
what they call terrorist cells with a
foothold in the Janine and taram refugee
camps Hamas which carried out the
October the 7th Terror attacks says it
was behind two reprisals in the West
Bank that killed one Israeli soldier and
wounded three
others sifting through the debris left
by a week-long Israeli raid raids in the
West Bank have been common since the
October 7th Terror attacks by Hamas but
residents say they haven't seen
destruction like this in over two
decades with Israeli forces demolishing
homes and businesses across the
territory local authorities say 70% of
the streets in the heavily populated
Janine refugee camp were
bulldozed many residents are now living
without electricity or running water
claiming Israel cut off access across
the area some people lost everything
they
had I have this shop behind
me I have had a barber shop since
1954 I opened it and I made a living
from it they destroyed it today the goal
is they want to destroy the country so
that people get tired of the
resistance but we will not get tired of
the resistance
the Israeli Army has no targets so they
target us but we will remain no matter
what they do Gaza has been under
bombardment for a year and is still
standing now so we will remain standing
God willing no matter what they do thank
God we are
strong for most of their lives older
Palestinians have witnessed regular
raids in the West Bank which has been
under Israeli occupation since
1967 these latest raids are seen as a
major
escalation hundreds of Israeli troops
supported by drones and armored vehicles
stormed several locations in the West
Bank beginning on August 28th targeting
what they said were militant
strongholds we will not let terrorism in
the West Bank raise its head that's the
reason we are going from City to City
Camp to Camp with excellent intelligence
very good operational capabilities very
strong aerial intelligence
support unlike in Gaza the militant
group Hamas has no official foothold in
the West Bank but the Israeli military
has carried out frequent operations in
the territory it occupies targeting
commanders of Hamas and other militant
groups they link to Terror attacks in
Israel according to United Nations
figures Israeli forces have killed over
600 Palestinians in the West Bank since
October 7th at the same time that that
they're fighting a war in Gaza 100 kilm
away myav Sunshine is a senior Analyst
at the international crisis group and
joins me now from Tel Aviv welcome to DW
good to see you again now Israel is
claiming that this operation is to
combat and eliminate terrorism tell us
is that
believable I mean I certainly think it
is to many Israelis and to the Israeli
establishment that is implementing these
actions uh what we see is not new and uh
as long as Israel you know continues to
militarily rule millions of Palestinians
who have no rights and no representation
my analysis of it is that resistance and
armed attacks and Terror and however you
want to call it will continue uh what's
really unfortunate uh as somebody who
sits in Israel is that what Israel is
doing they may think that it's going to
bring security but I think we know from
Decades of the situation that it
actually only brings further instability
and violence to Israeli as well so
unfortunately I don't think Israel's
actions whether or not they think they
are Justified are actually going to
achieve the result that Israel wants and
we see the same thing with Gaza Israel
has destroyed Gaza and Hamas has only
become more popular in many places I
mean Israel would of course say that
it's doing everything it can to not let
an October the 7th terrorist attack
happen again and I I've heard you say in
other interviews as well that Israeli
incursions into the West Bank in this
case risk fueling Palestinian resistance
rather than quelling it what would then
an an effective alternative strategy
be well unfortunately I don't see that
being very practical right now because
after October 7th Israelis don't see
Palestinians at all or if they do they
see them as the enemy But ultimately
Israel cannot continue to occupy
territory that it conquered in a war in
1967 uh it cannot continue to rule over
people who have no rights it can't
continue to have two separate systems of
law in one place uh in the West Bank and
now what we're seeing in Gaza looks like
a reoccupation uh within Gaza not just
from the outside this is ultimately not
going to bring stability to anyone um so
Israel you know ideally would stop
building settlements would agree in a
negotiated process to withdraw and to
try to find the best way to reach a
solution whether it's one state or two
state it doesn't matter ultimately
people need to be free and people need
to have equal rights just unfortunately
that's
not just just coming back to the West
Bank what we were talking about you know
obviously Israel is saying the idef is
saying we're going after militant
strongholds here so so again I mean if
they they say that they have the the
evidence the
intelligence what should they
do well look we're talking about a
military superpower in the Middle East
against um many Palestinians who have
never lived in anything other than a
refugee camp under occupation with no
political Horizon and all non-violent
acts of resistance over the years
especially in the early 2000s uh were
never met with Israeli concessions or
any kind of um willingness to enter a
real negotiated process so Palestinians
have been left with no other choice
unfortunately other than armed
resistance and what Israel does in the
West Bank in with its military
occupation is violent it is violent um
in in ways even more than armed
resistance is so in that sense you know
Palestinians can also say that they have
the right um to do what they do at the
same time so I mean the only way for
Israel to to to deal with Terror in a
legitimate way is first and foremost to
stop breaking international law agree to
a negotiated resolution and then it
would have much more legitimacy in
specific targeted operations Myra
Sunshine from the international crisis
group we'll have to leave it there but
we appreciate your time thank you so
much thank you an